Unfettered Hai side-story: Hai Slaves (#4900)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/hai/unfettered missions.txt

	source
		government "Hai"
	to offer
		or
			has "Pirate Troubles [4]: declined"
			has "Pirate Troubles [4]: done"
		has "main plot completed"
		random < 50
		"combat rating" > 2400
	on visit
		dialog `Oopes! You left Teeneep in one of your escorts. Depart and wait for the escorts to arrive.`
	on offer
		conversation
			`You see a large crowd of scared Hai gathered around a Hai woman. You can barely understand her words over the cacophony, but you hear "slavery," "pirates," and "cowardly pilots."`
			choice
				`	(Investigate.)`
				`	(Ignore them.)`
					decline
			`	As you approach, the crowd recognizes you immediately, "It's Captain <last>! That hero beat the pirates before!"`
			`	The woman quiets the crowd and explains, "Over the past three weeks, hundreds of Hai vacationers and explorers have been kidnapped in Ultima Thule while visiting Humans. We recently heard they were captured by pirates, but no pilot has the bravery to help us investigate.`
			# At this point, it is clear that Teeneep is a respected leader
			# with the power to control groups of emotionally-charged victims.
			
			`	"Surely the fearless hero <first> <last> will help?"`
			choice
				`	"Of course!"`

> 				`	"No, I'm late for a pedicure."`

Author: I'm replacing this mission, so the change is no longer relevant.

			# Captain <last> is from a dirt belt planet and worked in a mill.
			# Not a very exotic slave.
			
			`	Teeneep responds, "Actually, I'm looking to buy, not sell. Where can I get Hai slaves? I'll need a lot of them."`
			# The above line is when we first see Teeneep act completely out-of-character
			# to fool others into doing what she wants.
			
			`	"I've never been fool enough to enslave a Hai. I know some less cautious dealers, and I can inquire for you."`
			# Apparently slavers view enslaving Hai as being a very bad idea.
			# They are, perhaps, even more afraid of the Hai than of the Navy.
			
			`	Teeneep nods.`
			`	Hathor vanishes into a nearby office, activates a holo-communicator, and shuts the door.`
			choice
				`	(Spy on Hathor's conversation.)`
			`	It is difficult to make out Hathor's words through the thick door, but you can gather the gist of his conversations. He talks to a few slavers throughout Human space and finds a group near Syndicate space that have hundreds of Hai. They agree to meet you, and Hathor asks for 100,000 credits payment if the two of you are taken as slaves.`
			choice
				`	(Continue.)`

> 			`	Hathor emerges from his office. "I've scoured the galaxy, and only one slaver has Hai, but they have plenty. I'll want 50,000 credits before I give you details and a clearance code."`

Reviewer: Didn't I just hear where these slavers were by spying on Hathor? We at least know that they're near Syndicate space. That narrows down our search to 4 planets. We could decline to pay and search on our own.

			# The captain sarcastically returns to his script.
			
			`	Agent Kopkow rolls his eyes, "As the captain knows full well, tens of thousands of your people sneak into Human space every year, in violation of our countries' agreement. An estimated 17% of them die within a year and 33% within five years. About 9% join the pirates willingly, not as slaves. These are all risk-takers who suffer from their shortsightedness. Parliament won't accept a large sacrifice of Navy lives to save a group of alien criminals."`
			# Read: "Stop wandering into Hai territory and this will stop happening."
			# A stern warning to bring back to the Hai populace.
			
			`	Teeneep ears perk up as she hears her family's vacation referred to as, "shortsighted risk-taking by alien criminals."`
			`	Before she can correct the agent, Captain Wallace interrupts, "What about the possible Syndicate involvement?"`
			# Captain Wallace keeps Teeneep on script so he can
			# make his later contact.
			
			choice
				`	(Continue.)`
			`	Agent Kopkow says, "That does concern me. Aliens with advanced technology in the hands of Syndicate extremists?"`

> 			`	Admiral Cain nods in agreement, "I'll ask Navy Intelligence to confirm your story. We'll send agents and reconnaissance drones. If they prove your words true, I'm sure I can convince my superiors to take the base intact. We'll have to interrogate the surviving slaves, and press charges against any collaborators. I'm sure the vast majority will be allowed to return home."`

Author: Done. I'm getting errors though, but I'll fix those when I finish merging changes.

	clearance `When you announce your success, the Unfettered eagerly allow you to land.`
	destination Darkcloak
	to offer
		has "Hai Slave Rescue [09]: done"
	on visit
		dialog `You forgot some of the <cargo>. Wait for your escorts to arrive and land here again.`
	on offer
		conversation
			`Company representatives are suspicious of your request of many copies of specific ramscoop parts, "with no questions asked." When they see your payment is materials of alien origin, they readily agree.`
			# Apparently these merchants are not under parliamentary orders
			# to stay out of the Navy's business. Such is the nature of
			# a capitalist democracy.
			
			`	Now you need to return the <cargo> to <destination>`
				accept
	on complete
		log `The Unfettered now have what they need to build several ramscoops.`
		payment 850000
	npc
		government "Bounty Hunter"
		personality nemesis unconstrained
		system Castor
		fleet "Hired Guns" 2
		fleet "Bounty Hunters" 3
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		personality staying nemesis plunders harvests
		system "Ultima Thule"
		fleet "Large Northern Pirates" 2
		fleet "Small Northern Pirates" 4

> 

Author: Actually, they only use 28 ramscoops: 25 Geocorises and 3 Shield Beetles. I reduced the requirement to 28.

			
			`	Of the 913 Hai slaves, 871 were rescued. The others had died in their own escape attempt a week earlier. They managed to detonate a generator and destroy half the facility before their deaths though, which made the Unfettered rescue a little easier.`
			# Did Navy or Syndicate agents have something to do with that escape attempt
			# and sabotage? Has Teeneep just turned a few agents into red paste and
			# scorch marks?
			
			`	Teeneep approaches you, "We've found all the surviving Hai, including my family. Now you need to take me to <planet>, so we can retrieve the Hai Centipedes. The True Hai will stay here collecting restitution from Stormhold while we're away. You'll receive a share once all Hai are safely home. It will be a large payment."`
				accept
			# "Collecting restitution payments." The Unfettered Hai are pillaging
			# a planet of pillagers.
	on complete
		payment 75000

mission "Hai Slave Rescue [15]"
	name "Hai Slave Rescue: <planet>"
	description "Escort the Centipedes to <destination>. Payment is <payment>."
	landing
	destination Stormhold
	source Canyon
	clearance
	passengers 1
	to offer
		has "Hai Slave Rescue [14]: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`The Hai prepare their nine centipedes for the trip to <planet>. Hopefully there won't be a pirate ambush waiting; you have no Unfettered helping you this time.`

Reviewer 2: Why on earth would the unfettered NOT want to make sure the transports are safe?
```suggestion
			`The Hai prepare their nine centipedes for the trip to <planet>. Hopefully the pirates won't mount a counterattack.`
```

				accept
			# Well don't jinx it!
	on complete
		payment 75000
	npc accompany save
		government " Hai "
		personality timid escort
		fleet
			names "hai"
			variant
				"Centipede" 9
	npc
		government "Pirate"
		system Alcyone
		personality disables plunders opportunistic harvests staying target
		fleet "Large Core Pirates" 2
		fleet "Small Core Pirates" 5

> 

Reviewer 2: The Geocoris are busy, and the other two shield beetles may nor may not still survive, but at least this one should still be around.
```suggestion
	npc staying save
		government "Heroic Unfettered"
		system Alcyone
		personality heroic escort disables plunders
		ship "Unfettered Flagship" "Admiral Choot'k"

```

Author: The admiral is busy ransacking the planet. 

Also, he doesn't expect you to have trouble. You escorted the centipedes all the way from Hai space to Canyon. Now you're just escorting them one system away. As long as your flagship isn't a Bulk Freighter, you should be able to land before the ships are damaged. These aren't normal Centipedes; they have Hai Diamond Regenerators and extra ammo. They're designed for combat.
